---
layout: default
title: Schema Documentation
nav-title: Schema
note: This file is automatically generated from the OpenAPI schema. Do not edit this file directly.
---

# Security Insights _(v2.2.0-dev)_

**Table of Contents**

* 
{:toc}

---

## #SecurityInsights

SecurityInsights defines a schema that projects can use to report information about their security in a machine-processable way. The data tracked within this specification is intended to fill the gaps between simplified solutions such as SECURITY.md and comprehensive automated solutions such as SBOMs. In that gap lay elements that must be self-reported by projects to allow end-users to make informed security decisions.

`header` **[Header](#header)** _Required_

header captures high level metadata about the schema.

`project` **[Project](#project)**

project describes the overall project, including basic info, documentation links, repositories, vulnerability reporting, and security details. This field is not required if `header.project-si-source` is supplied.

`repository` **[Repository](#repository)**

repository describes repository-related configurations, including status, policies, team members, documentation, license, releases, and security posture. This field is not required if `header.project-si-source` is supplied. This field is required if the file is intended for use as a parent security insights file with project information to be inherited by multiple repositories via their respective `header.project-si-source`.

## #Assessment

Assessment represents the results of a security assessment, including comments, evidence, and date.

`comment` **string** _Required_

Notes or commentary about the findings or purpose of the assessment.

`date` **[Date](#date)**

The date the assessment was published.

`evidence` **[URL](#url)**

The URL where the assessment report or artifact is located.

`name` **string**

The name or identifier of the assessment artifact.

## #Attestation

Attestation describes an [in-toto attestation](https://github.com/in-toto/attestation/blob/main/spec/README.md#in-toto-attestation-framework-spec), including its name, location, predicate URI, and any additional comments.

`location` **[URL](#url)** _Required_

A web location where the attestation can be found.

`name` **string** _Required_

The name or identifier of the attestation.

`predicate-uri` **string** _Required_

A URI to a resource describing the attestation’s predicate or specification.

`comment` **string**

Additional context or instructions for using the attestation.

## #Contact

Contact represents a person or entity responsible for the project, including their name, affiliation, and contact details.

`name` **string** _Required_

The contact person's name.

`primary` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether this admin is the first point of contact for inquiries. Only one entry should be marked as primary.

`affiliation` **string**

The entity with which the contact is affiliated, such as a school or employer.

`email` **[Email](#email)**

A preferred email address to reach the contact.

`social` **string**

A social media handle or profile for the contact.

## #Header

The Header object captures high-level metadata about the schema.

`last-reviewed` **[Date](#date)** _Required_

The date when the document or data was last reviewed.

`last-updated` **[Date](#date)** _Required_

The date when the document or data was last updated.

`schema-version` **[SchemaVersion](#schemaversion)** _Required_

The version of the Security Insights schema being used.

`url` **[URL](#url)** _Required_

The original URL for the current Security Insights file. This should point to the canonical location where the file is hosted (e.g., a raw file URL in a version control system). This helps preserve context when the file is extracted from its source. This may also be referenced to help readers find the latest version of the security insights file, in the event that they are accessing it from an outdated source, such as a past release artifact. This is not to be confused with the URL for the project. Project URLs should be specified in `project.repositories` instead.

`comment` **string**

Additional information about the schema.

`project-si-source` **[URL](#url)**

A URL to the security insights file that contains project information for this file to inherit. The URL provided here should respond to an unauthenticated GET request and return a valid security insights file using a content-type of "text/plain" or "application/yaml". This is useful for projects that are part of a larger organization or ecosystem, where much of the security insights data is shared across multiple projects.

## #License

`expression` **string** _Required_

The SPDX license expression for the license.

`url` **[URL](#url)** _Required_

A web address where the license can be found.

## #Link

`comment` **string** _Required_

Instructions or information about the link.

`uri` **string** _Required_

A link to a resource, not restricted to http/s.

## #Project

Project describes the overall project, including basic info, documentation links, repositories, vulnerability reporting, and security details.

`administrators` **array[[Contact](#contact)]** _Required_

A list of 1 or more individuals who have administrative access to the project's resources.

`name` **string** _Required_

The name of the project.

`repositories` **array[[ProjectRepository](#projectrepository)]** _Required_

A list of 1 or more repositories that are part of this project, including the repository this file is published in.

`vulnerability-reporting` **[VulnerabilityReporting](#vulnerabilityreporting)** _Required_

An object describing how security vulnerabilities can be reported and how they are handled by the project.

`documentation` **[ProjectDocumentation](#projectdocumentation)**

the project's documentation resources

`funding` **[URL](#url)**

A URL to information about sponsorships, donations, or other funding topics.

`homepage` **[URL](#url)**

A path to the project’s landing page. This may be a project website, a version control system repository, or a project/organization page in the VCS.

`roadmap` **[URL](#url)**

A URL pointing to a roadmap or schedule for planned features and releases.

`steward` **[Link](#link)**

This field is to communicate the relationship between the project and "a legal person, other than a manufacturer, that has the purpose or objective of systematically providing support on a sustained basis for the development of specific products with digital elements, qualifying as free and open-source software and intended for commercial activities, and that ensures the viability of those products" This definition is drawn from the [European Union Cyber Resilience Act, Article 3](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/2847/oj/eng#art_3).

## #ProjectDocumentation

ProjectDocumentation contains links to various documents related to the project, including detailed guides, code of conduct, quickstart guides, release processes, support policies, and signature verification.

`code-of-conduct` **[URL](#url)**

URL to the document outlining contributor and user conduct guidelines.

`design` **[URL](#url)**

URL to design documentation for this project.

`detailed-guide` **[URL](#url)**

URL to more extensive or advanced documentation.

`quickstart-guide` **[URL](#url)**

URL to a concise guide to basic functionality for new users.

`release-process` **[URL](#url)**

URL describing how releases are planned, prepared, and published.

`signature-verification` **[URL](#url)**

URL to documentation explaining how to verify digital signatures on assets.

`support-policy` **[URL](#url)**

URL to documentation describing how releases are supported. See [Recommendations for publishing End-of-life dates and support timelines](https://endoflife.date/recommendations) for best practices.

## #ProjectRepository

The ProjectRepository object describes a repository that is part of a project, including its name, comment, and URL.

`comment` **string** _Required_

Explanation of the repository purpose or contents and its relation to the rest of the project.

`name` **string** _Required_

The name or short label of the repository.

`url` **[URL](#url)** _Required_

The URL where the repository is hosted.

## #ReleaseDetails

ReleaseDetails describes the release process for the repository, including automated pipelines, distribution points, changelogs, licenses, and attestations.

`automated-pipeline` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates if the repository uses an automated release pipeline.

`distribution-points` **array[[Link](#link)]** _Required_

A list of 1 or more links describing where the repository’s releases are distributed. This may be the VCS releases page, a package manager, or other distribution points.

`attestations` **array[[Attestation](#attestation)]**

List of attestations for the repository’s releases.

`changelog` **[URL](#url)**

A URL to the repository’s release changelog. The URL value should include placeholders such as `{version}` if relevant.

`license` **[License](#license)**

Describes the license details specifically for releases. This should be used when the release license differs from the repository license.

## #Repository

The Repository object specifies repository-related configurations, including status, policies, team members, documentation, license, releases, and security posture.

`accepts-automated-change-request` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether the repository accepts automated or machine-generated change requests.

`accepts-change-request` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether the repository currently accepts any change requests.

`core-team` **array[[Contact](#contact)]** _Required_

A list of 1 or more core team members for this repository, such as maintainers or approvers.

`license` **[License](#license)** _Required_

The license information for this repository.

`security` **[SecurityPosture](#securityposture)** _Required_

An object describing security-related artifacts, champions, and tooling for the repository.

`status` **string** _Required_

Indicates the repository’s current [Repo Status](https://repostatus.org).

`url` **[URL](#url)** _Required_

The main URL for this repository.

`bug-fixes-only` **boolean**

Specifies whether the repository only accepts bug-fixes and not feature work.

`documentation` **[RepositoryDocumentation](#repositorydocumentation)**

Documentation links for the repository, including links to contributing guides, dependency management policies, governance documents, and review policies.

`no-third-party-packages` **boolean**

Indicates whether the repository universally avoids package dependencies from outside of the project.

`release` **[ReleaseDetails](#releasedetails)**

Release describes the release process for the repository.

## #RepositoryDocumentation

RepositoryDocumentation contains links to various documents related to the repository, including contributing guides, dependency management policies, governance documents, and review policies.

`contributing-guide` **[URL](#url)**

URL to a document outlining the process for contributing to the repository.

`dependency-management-policy` **[URL](#url)**

URL to a document outlining the process for managing dependencies in the repository.

`governance` **[URL](#url)**

URL to any governance documents regarding roles, responsibilities, processes, and decision-making.

`review-policy` **[URL](#url)**

URL to a document outlining the process for reviewing changes to the repository.

`security-policy` **[URL](#url)**

URL with information about the repository's security, including the policy for reporting security vulnerabilities.

## #SecurityPosture

SecurityPosture describes the security posture of the repository, including assessments, champions, and tools.

`assessments` **object** _Required_

An object describing security assessments for the repository.

`champions` **array[[Contact](#contact)]**

A list of core team members who advocate for continuous improvement of security practices. These individuals may take responsibility for security reviews, training, interfacing with stakeholders on security topics, or other similar activities.

`tools` **array[[SecurityTool](#securitytool)]**

A list of objects describing security-related tools used in the repository.

## #SecurityTool

SecurityTool describes a security-related tool used in the repository, including its name, type, version, rulesets, integration details, and results.

`integration` **[SecurityToolIntegration](#securitytoolintegration)** _Required_

An object describing how the tool is integrated with the project.

`name` **string** _Required_

The name of the tool.

`results` **[SecurityToolResults](#securitytoolresults)** _Required_

SecurityToolResults describes the results of security scans, including those run on-demand, in continuous integration, and during the release process.

`rulesets` **string** _Required_

The set of rules or configurations applied by the tool. If customization is not enabled, the only value here should be "default".

`type` **string** _Required_

The general category or type of the tool.

`comment` **string**

Additional notes about the tool’s usage or configuration.

`version` **string**

The version of the tool that is used.

## #SecurityToolIntegration

SecurityToolIntegration describes how a security tool is integrated into the repository, including whether it is used in scheduled processes, continuous integration, or during the release process.

`adhoc` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether the tool is used in a scheduled process or supports an on-demand.

`ci` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether the tool is used in the continuous integration process.

`release` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether the tool is run before or during the release process.

## #SecurityToolResults

SecurityToolResults describes the results of security scans, including those run on-demand, in continuous integration, and during the release process.

`adhoc` **[Attestation](#attestation)**

Results of scheduled or on-demand security scans.

`ci` **[Attestation](#attestation)**

Results of security scans run in the continuous integration process.

`release` **[Attestation](#attestation)**

Results of security scans run in the build and release process.

## #VulnerabilityReporting

VulnerabilityReporting describes how security vulnerabilities can be reported and how they are handled by the project.

`bug-bounty-available` **boolean** _Required_

Specifies whether a bug bounty program is offered.

`reports-accepted` **boolean** _Required_

Indicates whether this project currently accepts vulnerability reports.

`bug-bounty-program` **[URL](#url)**

Path to a page providing details about any bug bounty program.

`comment` **string**

Additional comments or instructions about vulnerability reporting.

`contact` **[Contact](#contact)**

Point of contact for reporting vulnerabilities. This may be a single person or a mailgroup.

`in-scope` **array[string]**

A list of issues or components that are covered by the vulnerability reporting process.

`out-of-scope` **array[string]**

A list of issues or components not covered by the vulnerability reporting process.

`pgp-key` **string**

The PGP public key for secure communication.

`policy` **[URL](#url)**

Path to a page containing rules for security-related disclosures.


## Aliases

The following aliases are used throughout the schema for consistency.

### `Date`

Date is a date in the format YYYY-MM-DD

- **Type**: `string`
- **Format**: `date`
- **Value**: `^\d{4}-\d{2}-\d{2}$`

---

### `Email`

Email is a valid email address

- **Type**: `string`
- **Value**: `^[A-Za-z0-9._%+-]+@[A-Za-z0-9.-]+\\.[A-Za-z]{2,}$`

---

### `SchemaVersion`

SchemaVersion is a version string in the format X.Y.Z

- **Type**: `string`
- **Value**: `^[1-9]+\\.[0-9]+\\.[0-9]+$`

---

### `URL`

URL is a TLS URL

- **Type**: `string`
- **Value**: `^https?://[^\\s]+$`

---


[Header]: #header
[Project]: #project
[SchemaVersion]: #schemaversion
[VulnerabilityReporting]: #vulnerabilityreporting
[SecurityPosture]: #securityposture
[SecurityToolIntegration]: #securitytoolintegration
[Repository]: #repository
[URL]: #url
[Email]: #email
[ProjectDocumentation]: #projectdocumentation
[Link]: #link
[RepositoryDocumentation]: #repositorydocumentation
[ReleaseDetails]: #releasedetails
[SecurityToolResults]: #securitytoolresults
[Attestation]: #attestation
[SecurityTool]: #securitytool
[License]: #license
[Date]: #date
[Contact]: #contact
[ProjectRepository]: #projectrepository